[DOCS] Adding Flyte Deployment pattern to docs (#3383)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/deployment_patterns/how_to_use_great_expectations_in_flyte.md

---
title: How to Use Great Expectations in Flyte
---
import Prerequisites from '../guides/connecting_to_your_data/components/prerequisites.jsx'

*This piece of documentation was authored by [Samhita Alla](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samhita-alla) and the [Flyte](https://flyte.org/) team*

This guide will help you run a Great Expectations in [Flyte](https://flyte.org/)

> <Prerequisites>

Author: @talagluck I copied this over from the airflow example. Let me know if we need these and if we should remove or add any prerequisites

- [Set up a working deployment of Great Expectations](../tutorials/getting_started/intro.md)

> - [Created an Expectation Suite](../tutorials/getting_started/create_your_first_expectations.md)

Reviewer: The intro walks users through the entire experience from initializing a data context, through connecting to data, through creating an expectation suite. If we're going to have a specific step for "Creating an Expectation Suite" (which make sense), I think we should have a step right before for ["Connecting to Data"](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/tutorials/getting_started/connect_to_data).

I just want to call out that we are linking to the Getting Started tutorial here, which is about specifically working with the taxi data. I don't think we have other good generic links for this, so this is probably ok - for instance, our links about Connecting to Data would otherwise all be particular to specific backends.

Reviewer 2: Note: we need to revisit how we do the Prerequisites section for a lot of docs, for exactly the kinds of reasons that you point out.

We can come back to this doc at that time, too.

> - [Created a checkpoint for that Expectation Suite and a data asset](../guides/validation/checkpoints/how_to_create_a_new_checkpoint.md)

Reviewer: I believe we can remove the line about creating a checkpoint.

*If you haven’t worked with Flyte before, jump right into the [getting started tutorial](https://docs.flyte.org/en/latest/getting_started.html).*

## Background
As mentioned earlier, Flyte has a native type system. This includes support for FlyteFile and FlyteSchema. 
* [FlyteFile](https://docs.flyte.org/projects/flytekit/en/latest/generated/flytekit.types.file.FlyteFile.html#flytekit.types.file.FlyteFile): FlyteFile represents an automatic persistence object in Flyte. It represents files in remote storage, and Flyte will transparently materialize them in every task execution.
* [FlyteSchema](https://docs.flyte.org/projects/flytekit/en/latest/generated/flytekit.types.schema.FlyteSchema.html#flytekit.types.schema.FlyteSchema): FlyteSchema supports tabular data. Examples include pandas DataFrame, Spark DataFrame, etc. 

The integration has been written such that both FlyteFile and FlyteSchema are inherently supported. So you can validate FlyteFile and FlyteSchema using Great Expectations within any Flyte pipeline!

> *Flyte types have been added because, in Great Expectations, we have the privilege to give a non-string (Pandas/Spark DataFrame) when using a [RuntimeDataConnector](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/reference/datasources#runtimedataconnector-and-runtimebatchrequest) but not when using an [InferredAssetFilesystemDataConnector](https://legacy.docs.greatexpectations.io/en/latest/autoapi/great_expectations/datasource/data_connector/inferred_asset_filesystem_data_connector/index.html?highlight=InferredAssetFilesystemDataConnector#great_expectations.datasource.data_connector.inferred_asset_filesystem_data_connector.InferredAssetFilesystemDataConnector) or a [ConfiguredAssetFilesystemDataConnector](https://legacy.docs.greatexpectations.io/en/latest/autoapi/great_expectations/datasource/data_connector/configured_asset_filesystem_data_connector/index.html#great_expectations.datasource.data_connector.configured_asset_filesystem_data_connector.ConfiguredAssetFilesystemDataConnector). For the latter case, with the integration of Flyte types, we can give a Pandas/Spark DataFrame or a remote URI as the dataset.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Flyte types have been added because, in Great Expectations, we have the ability to pass a non-string (Pandas/Spark DataFrame) when using a [RuntimeDataConnector](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/reference/datasources#runtimedataconnector-and-runtimebatchrequest) but not when using an [InferredAssetFilesystemDataConnector](https://legacy.docs.greatexpectations.io/en/latest/autoapi/great_expectations/datasource/data_connector/inferred_asset_filesystem_data_connector/index.html?highlight=InferredAssetFilesystemDataConnector#great_expectations.datasource.data_connector.inferred_asset_filesystem_data_connector.InferredAssetFilesystemDataConnector) or a [ConfiguredAssetFilesystemDataConnector](https://legacy.docs.greatexpectations.io/en/latest/autoapi/great_expectations/datasource/data_connector/configured_asset_filesystem_data_connector/index.html#great_expectations.datasource.data_connector.configured_asset_filesystem_data_connector.ConfiguredAssetFilesystemDataConnector). For the latter case, with the integration of Flyte types, we can give a Pandas/Spark DataFrame or a remote URI as the dataset.*
```
